Development.md, before:

# Development of a Database-Driven Web Application for NCEA Level 3

Project Name: **MotiveAuto**

Project Author: **Myles Smalley**

Assessment Standards: **91902** and **91903**


-------------------------------------------------

## Design, Development and Testing Log

### 21/05/24

Starting Database Sketch

I began looking at what my final database would look like, and after a few different iterations, I landed on this. Each user can have many cars on the sight.
![Alt text](images/db.png)

> User had no questions about the layout of the database, was happy with the layout, and all the features it offers.

I left the Database sketch how it was, since it would cater to the end-users needs as is.

### 23/05/24

Sketched out how I intend the website will run

Below is a all the actions I will aim to include in the functionality of my Website, including all the pages, their function, and all the options that the users will have when accessing the pages.
![Alt text](images/sketch.png)

> End User was happy with how it looked, and siad he couldn't wait to see a working version.

My end user gave me no feedback to act on.

### 24/05/24

Started on Website Design using Figma

This is the first draft of what the front end of the home page of my website will look like. I will most definitely add to this, but I will get the end-user to give me tips on what to add.  
![Alt text](images/figmav1.png)

> End user wanted a search bar so they could search for cars that was, instead of jst scrolling in hope of finding the car they want. He also said that a darker colour scheme with highlights would be better than the black, white and grey.

Search bar was added, I shall look at colours later down the track.

![Alt text](images/searchbar.png)

### 07/06/24

Finished Figma Draft

I finished a first draft on all the pages in my website.
![Alt text](images/figmav2.png)

> End user is very happy with how the draft is layed out, and how all the components function with each other. I let the end user navigate around the wesite himself, and he didn't have any issues with the UI or Functionality.

I think I will need to make the navigation tab a little larger in the coded version. But other than that, no immediate changes will be made.

### 07/06/24

Colour Scheme/Font

This is the scheme I liked the most after testing some out. I shall see what my end user says.
![Alt text](images/colour.png)

> End user was much happier with the darker colour as apposed to the white, grey and black. They were also a big fan of the green.

I have changed the colour scheme on all the pages to the darker scheme as the end user requested.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

> Replace this text with any user feedback / comments

Replace this text with notes describing how you acted upon the user feedback: made changes to design, etc.

Commit message:

Picked the Font, and applied the new colour scheme to the figma design. We should now be ready to Code!

Development.md, after:

# Development of a Database-Driven Web Application for NCEA Level 3

Project Name: **MotiveAuto**

Project Author: **Myles Smalley**

Assessment Standards: **91902** and **91903**


-------------------------------------------------

## Design, Development and Testing Log

### 21/05/24

Starting Database Sketch

I began looking at what my final database would look like, and after a few different iterations, I landed on this. Each user can have many cars on the sight.
![Alt text](images/db.png)

> User had no questions about the layout of the database, was happy with the layout, and all the features it offers.

I left the Database sketch how it was, since it would cater to the end-users needs as is.

### 23/05/24

Sketched out how I intend the website will run

Below is a all the actions I will aim to include in the functionality of my Website, including all the pages, their function, and all the options that the users will have when accessing the pages.
![Alt text](images/sketch.png)

> End User was happy with how it looked, and siad he couldn't wait to see a working version.

My end user gave me no feedback to act on.

### 24/05/24

Started on Website Design using Figma

This is the first draft of what the front end of the home page of my website will look like. I will most definitely add to this, but I will get the end-user to give me tips on what to add.  
![Alt text](images/figmav1.png)

> End user wanted a search bar so they could search for cars that was, instead of jst scrolling in hope of finding the car they want. He also said that a darker colour scheme with highlights would be better than the black, white and grey.

Search bar was added, I shall look at colours later down the track.

![Alt text](images/searchbar.png)

### 07/06/24

Finished Figma Draft

I finished a first draft on all the pages in my website.
![Alt text](images/figmav2.png)

> End user is very happy with how the draft is layed out, and how all the components function with each other. I let the end user navigate around the wesite himself, and he didn't have any issues with the UI or Functionality.

I think I will need to make the navigation tab a little larger in the coded version. But other than that, no immediate changes will be made.

### 07/06/24

Colour Scheme

This is the scheme I liked the most after testing some out. I shall see what my end user says.
![Alt text](images/colour.png)

> End user was much happier with the darker colour as apposed to the white, grey and black. They were also a big fan of the green.

I have changed the colour scheme on all the pages to the darker scheme as the end user requested.

Old Colour Scheme
![alt text](images/oldscheme.png)
New Colour Scheme
![alt text](images/newscheme.png)

New UI Design
![alt text](images/newui.png)


### 08/06/24

Font

I had a look at all the diffrent fonts that Figma has integrated into their system. I like the font Jaldi for my website. It's Clear, not fancy and easy to read.
![alt text](images/newfont.png)

> My end user also likes the Jaldi Font, for the same reasons I do, commenting on the fact that its not fancy, and hard on his eyes.

I will use the Jaldi font when I start coding the website.

Old 'Inter' Font
![alt text](images/oldfont.png)
New 'Jaldi' Font
![alt text](images/newfont.png)
